# Aphra Behn

**Aphra Behn** (/ˈæfrə bɛn/; bapt. 14 December 1640 – 16 April 1689) was an
English playwright, poet, prose writer and translator from the Restoration
era. As one of the first English women to earn her living by her writing, she
broke cultural barriers and served as a literary role model for later
generations of women authors. Rising from obscurity, she came to the notice
of Charles II, who employed her as a spy in Antwerp. Upon her return to
London and a probable brief stay in debtors' prison, she began writing for
the stage. She belonged to a coterie of poets and famous libertines such as
John Wilmot, Lord Rochester. Behn wrote under the pastoral pseudonym Astrea.
During the turbulent political times of the Exclusion Crisis, she wrote an
epilogue and prologue that brought her legal trouble; she thereafter devoted
most of her writing to prose genres and translations. A staunch supporter of
the Stuart line, Behn declined an invitation from Bishop Burnet to write a
welcoming poem to the new king William III. She died shortly after.

She is remembered in Virginia Woolf's *A Room of One's Own*: "All women
together ought to let flowers fall upon the tomb of Aphra Behn which is, most
scandalously but rather appropriately, in Westminster Abbey, for it was she
who earned them the right to speak their minds." Her grave is not included in
the Poets' Corner but lies in the East Cloister near the steps to the church.

Her best-known works are
[*Oroonoko: or, the Royal Slave*](https://amzn.to/42BkTIj), sometimes
described as an early novel, and the play
[*The Rover*](https://amzn.to/3YnkHtD).

*Aphra Behn* - [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aphra_Behn)
